GraphQL: Add configurable_product_options_selection attribute and exa… (#8398)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.4/graphql/interfaces/configurable-product.md

Attribute | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`configurable_options` | [[ConfigurableProductOptions]](#configProdOptions) | An array of linked simple product items

> `configurable_product_options_selection(configurableOptionValueUids: [ID!])` | [ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection](#ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection) | Contains media gallery items and other details about selected configurable product options as well as details about remaining selectable options. We recommend filtering by one or more `uid` values to prevent loading a large amount of media gallery data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`configurable_product_options_selection(configurableOptionValueUids: [ID!])` | [ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection](#ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection) | Contains media gallery items and other details about selected configurable product options and remaining selectable options. Magento recommends you filter by one or more `uid` values to prevent loading a large amount of media gallery data
```

`uid` | ID! | A string that encodes option details
`value_index` | Int | A unique index number assigned to the configurable product option

### ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection attributes {#ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection}

> The `ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection` object describes configurable options that have been and can be selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection` object describes configurable options that have been or can be selected.
```

`use_default` | Boolean | Indicates whether the option is the default
`values` | [[ConfigurableProductOptionsValues]](#configProdOptionsValues) | An array that defines the `value_index` codes assigned to the configurable product

### ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection attributes {#ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection}

> The `ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection` object contains metadata corresponding to the selectable configurable options for a product. It is meant to be used in a `products` query to restrict which media gallery items are displayed as the shopper selects configurable product options. [Limit the number of retrieved media gallery items](#media-gallery-example) demonstrates its use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ConfigurableProductOptionsSelection` object contains metadata corresponding to the selectable configurable options for a product. Use this object in a `products` query to restrict which media gallery items to display when the shopper selects configurable product options. [Limit the number of retrieved media gallery items](#media-gallery-example) demonstrates its use.
```

Attribute | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`media_gallery` | [MediaGalleryInterface!] | Product images and videos corresponding to the specified configurable options selection

> `options_available_for_selection` | [[ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection!]](#ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection) | Lists the options that have been selected and the options that are available as a result of the previous selections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`options_available_for_selection` | [[ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection!]](#ConfigurableOptionAvailableForSelection) | Lists the options selected and the options available as a result of the previous selections
```

`use_default_value` | Boolean | Indicates whether to use the default_label
`value_index` | Int | A unique index number assigned to the configurable product option

### ConfigurableVariant object

The `ConfigurableVariant` object contains the following attributes:

Field | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---

> `attributes` | ConfigurableAttributeOption | ConfigurableAttributeOption contains the value_index (and other related information) assigned to a configurable product option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`attributes` | ConfigurableAttributeOption | Contains the `value_index` (and other related information) assigned to a configurable product option
```

{% endcollapsible %}

### Limit the number of retrieved media gallery items {#media-gallery-example}

This example shows how the the media gallery items change as a shopper selects configurable options for the product with the SKU `MS10`. The configurable product attributes in the Luma sample data are limited to size and color, and these attributes have a small number of options (five and three, respectively). However, some storefronts will have products with dozens of selectable options. Returning detailed information about all media gallery items in such a storefront would create performance issues.

#### Step 1. Get the images on the parent page

> The following query returns media gallery information on the parent configurable and the `uid` values of each configurable option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query returns media gallery information on the parent configurable product and the `uid` values of each configurable option.
```

                {
                  "label": "Red",
                  "uid": "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzkzLzU4"
                }
              ]
            },
            {
              "attribute_code": "size",
              "values": [
                {
                  "label": "XS",
                  "uid": "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjY="
                },
                {
                  "label": "S",
                  "uid": "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjc="
                },
                {
                  "label": "M",
                  "uid": "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjg="
                },
                {
                  "label": "L",
                  "uid": "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjk="
                },
                {
                  "label": "XL",
                  "uid": "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNzA="
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Step 2. Select the color

In this example, the shopper has selected the red variant. The query has been expanded to include the `configurable_product_options_selection` object, which filters on the `uid` of the red variant. Within that object, notice:

> -  The `options_available_for_selection` shows that all of the `size` attributes can still be selected, and that the red variant has been selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  The `options_available_for_selection` displays all available `size` attributes with the red variant selected.
```

-  The `media_gallery` object contains the `ms10-red_main_1.jpg` image, which can then be displayed with the parent images.

> -  The `variant` object is null, because the shopper has not selected a size. The variant is not fully defined until a value for all of the selectable attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  The `variant` object is null, because the shopper has not selected a size. The variant is not fully defined until you specify a value for all of the selectable attributes.
```

                  "label": "XL",
                  "uid": "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNzA="
                }
              ]
            }
          ],
          "configurable_product_options_selection": {
            "options_available_for_selection": [
              {
                "attribute_code": "size",
                "option_value_uids": [
                  "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjY=",
                  "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjc=",
                  "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjg=",
                  "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNjk=",
                  "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzE2MC8xNzA="
                ]
              },
              {
                "attribute_code": "color",
                "option_value_uids": [
                  "Y29uZmlndXJhYmxlLzkzLzU4"
                ]
              }
            ],
            "media_gallery": [
              {
                "url": "http://<host>/media/catalog/product/cache/816455256c48217ab8c5c822a6039d1a/m/s/ms10-red_main_1.jpg",
                "label": "",
                "position": 1
              }
            ],
            "variant": null
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Step 3. Select the size

> In this example, the shopper has selected the Medium option for the size attribute. The query adds the corresponding `uid` to the `configurable_product_options_selection` filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, because the shopper has selected the Medium option for the size attribute, the query adds the corresponding `uid` to the `configurable_product_options_selection` filter.
```

-  The `options_available_for_selection` shows that a `size` and a `color` option has been selected.

> -  The Luma sample data doesn't include any images that are specific to a size, so the content of the `media_gallery` object is unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  The Luma sample data does not include any images that are specific to a size, so the content of the `media_gallery` object is unchanged.
```
